---
title: About Alison's work
---

I am led by my materials, first and foremost. Working with reclaimed
cashmere, my archive of rich and subtly coloured fabric is my palette.
Often a piece will start with the relationship between two colours or
textures. Tuning into how they ‘sing’ together leads me on towards the
finished composition for a quilt or cushion. With this intuitive method,
I feel I am working in a folk art tradition, and the quilting of Gee’s
Bend is a particular touchstone.

I also want my work to have a light touch, to demonstrate a certain wit
about its own construction. The recycled garments I use – a cerise
twinset or a heather-coloured golf jumper – each have their own
personality, or perhaps have taken on some of the character of their
previous owners. Felting, cutting and recombining them, I don’t want to
lose their history. That’s why little details from a garment’s previous
life sometimes sneak into my constructions: a row of pearl buttons, say,
or a collar.

My route towards making has not been straight forward. I went to
agricultural college before art school and my long-standing interest and
connection with landscape and the natural world feeds into the work I
make. Initially I applied my training in textile design to wall-based
work, creating images from dyed paper- and fabric-pulp. An intense focus
on colour carries over into my current work with cashmere, and there are
technical echoes between the construction of paper pulp pictures and the
felting method I now use. The tactile dimension of my work has become
increasingly important to me; I work only with cashmere, not for its
luxury cache, but simply because I want what I make to appeal equally to
the eye and the fingertips.

## Technique

I source the second-hand cashmere garments that are my primary material
from the United States. As can be seen in my work, it is important that
I have a wide variety of shades to work from, as many of my pieces
explore subtle interplays of colour. The garments are first felted in
hot water, dried, and ‘filleted’, removing collars and cuffs, so that
they become a series of flat panels of felted cashmere, ready to be
combined. The scale of fabric sections I work with varies widely. I pin
the composition, allowing me to adapt and experiment with different
juxtapositions as I go, then I machine sew it together, hand-finishing
the edges of blankets. 
